The President:
Hi, everybody.
Over the past few weeks, I've
been visiting with Americans
across the country to talk about
what we need to do to secure
a better bargain for
the middle class.
We need to rebuild an economy
that rewards hard work
and responsibility; an economy
built firmly on the cornerstones
of middle-class life.
Good jobs.
A good education.
A home of your own.
A secure retirement.
And quality, affordable health
care that's there
when you need it.
Right now, we're well on our
way to fully implementing
the Affordable Care Act.
And in the next few months,
we'll reach a couple milestones
with real meaning for
millions of Americans.
If you're one of the 85% of
Americans who already have
insurance, you've already got
new benefits and protections
under this law that
you didn't before.
Free checkups, mammograms,
and contraceptive care.
Discounted prescription
medicine on Medicare.
The fact you can stay on your
parents' plan until you turn 26.
And much, much more.
And it's okay if you're not a
fan of the Affordable Care Act -
you can take advantage
of these things anyway.
If you don't have insurance,
beginning on October 1st,
private plans will actually
compete for your business.
You can comparison shop in an
online marketplace, just like
you would for cell phone
plans or plane tickets.
You may be eligible for new tax
credits to help you afford
the plan that's right for you.
And if you're in the up to half
of all Americans who've been
sick or have a preexisting
condition, this law means that
beginning January 1st, insurance
companies have to cover you -
and they can't use your medical
history to charge
you more than anybody else.
You can find out more about the
law, and how to sign up to buy
your own coverage right
now at HealthCare.gov.
Tell your friends and neighbors
without insurance about it, too.
And tell your kids that
there's a new, easy way to buy
affordable plans specifically
tailored to young people.
Many Members of Congress, in
both parties, are working hard
to inform their constituents
about these benefits,
protections, and
affordable plans.
But there's also a group of
Republicans in Congress working
hard to confuse people, and
making empty promises that
they'll either shut down the
health care law, or, if they
don't get their way, they'll
shut down the government.
Think about that.
They're actually having a debate
between hurting Americans
who will no longer be denied
affordable care just because
they've been sick - and harming
the economy and millions
of Americans in the process.
And many Republicans are more
concerned with how badly this
debate will hurt them
politically than they are with
how badly it'll
hurt the country.
A lot of Republicans seem to
believe that if they can gum
up the works and make this law
fail, they'll somehow
be sticking it to me.
But they'd just be
sticking it to you.
Some even say that if you call
their office with questions
about the law, they'll
refuse to help.
Call me old-fashioned -
but that's
lousy constituent service.
And it's not what you deserve.
Your health insurance isn't
something to play politics with.
Our economy isn't something
to play politics with.
This is not a game.
This is about the
economic security
of millions of families.
See, in the states where
governors and legislatures
and insurers are working
together to implement this law
properly - states like
California, New York, Colorado
and Maryland - competition and
consumer choice are actually
making insurance affordable.
So I'm going to keep doing
everything in my power to make
sure this law works
as it's supposed to.
Because in the United States of
America, health insurance isn't
a privilege - it is your right.
And we're going to
keep it that way.
Thanks.
And have a great weekend.